Let's use what we've learned so far to consider this problem right here.
So I've got a positive and a negative charge separated by some distance and they create this equity
potential surfaces here are shown kind of in the plane.
OK.
So as I'm close to the positive charge I have positive 30 volts as I get farther away it gets smaller
it's still positive.
There is a equity potential surface here that is kind of zero volts and again now eyes I approach the
negative charge I get kind of lower numbers or more negative numbers negative 30 volts.
All right my question is simple what if I take this charge and I carry it and bring it all the way to
this final position and I bring it along this very complicated path.
The question is how would you calculate the work done by the electric field in this case.
Kind of a hard problem right because the electric field is probably quite complicated.
However if we use our concept of potential energy well we could do is easily calculate the work done
by the field and also remember that the field is conservative.
If it's a conservative field conservative that means that the work done by the conservative field is
always equal to minus the change in electrical potential energy.
So what do we have over here in my initial configuration.
I have a negative five Coolum charge that is on a potential surface that's 30 volts.
So that means initially what I have is a charge on a certain potential.
So that is the energy of this charge when it's in this position.
We can actually calculate that right.
That's negative five and multiplied by 30 volts plus 30 volts.
That gives me minus 1 50 Joules.
That is the initial potential energy of this of the system right here.
And all I want to do now is I don't really care about the path whether I take the green path or if I
go in a straight line.
The only thing that matter is if it's a conservative field is where it starts and where it finishes.
So again the work done by the fuel we can do is just expand this.
This is minus the change which is a final value minus an initial value.
And if you distribute that negative side through you're just going to swap those.
All right.
So I need to know the initial potential energy of the system and the final.
Well let's go ahead and calculate the final value over here at the end.
I'm on a equate potential that is minus 20 volts.
OK.
So the final potential energy let's do it down here again it's Q multiplied by V final.
In this case it's still negative five and negative five multiplied by the last one the final equity
potential is twenty volts.
So at the end I have a hundred jewels of potential energy and it's positive at the end.
Again to calculate the work what we need to do is calculate this difference over here.
So the initial is minus 150 and minus the final potential energy is minus one hundred positive one hundred.
So at the end pretty straightforward the work done by the electric field is equal to minus 250 jewels.
All right.
So that would be the answer for this problem.
If I wanted to know what is the work done by whoever is carrying this over here.
Well that would just be the opposite sign right.
The work done by the applied force is simply negative that value so would simply be 250 joules this
negative charge here is quite happy to be close to the positive right here in order for me to get it
over here.
I really have to do put some energy into the system I have to put in 250 joules of work in order to
bring it over here on the other side.